We already know what are the metrics
or conversion ratios we have
to optimize, we have it on the
dashboard, but the next thing
is, what is what we will do
to optimize them?, what is
the plan?, what are
the tools?, what are the
keys we have to touch?
Well, here I want to make clear one
thing, as when we talked
about attraction strategies,
traffic, at the end there is
a series of channels, a series
of platforms that we all resort
to or at least we all know,
which are X, put that
10.
Well, in the case of conversions
we are talking about
a much wider spectrum,
things we can do, keys
we can touch, etc.
Therefore, it takes a lot more intelligence
to optimize conversions than
to attract traffic than it
does many times, which in many
cases is just a matter of almost
money.
Why do we need more intelligence?
Because conversions depend on a
lot of things, they depend on the
message you choose at every
moment, they depend on what your
customer is thinking, they depend
on having enough psychology,
they depend on the number and
the time you impact your customers,
etc.
But what is clear is that if you
get it, the profits that are generated
are huge, because you almost generate
a competitive advantage,
because all companies can invest
in attracting traffic, but as
I said it is much more challenging
to be the best converting.
Well, what we have to do
is know what the main
tools and leverage
are used to increase
conversions.
And the first thing I want to make
clear, which is something that is not
usually highlighted at this point,
is that the most important thing, regardless
of whether you do retargeting, use
one or another platform, do lead
nurturing, etc., regardless
of the concrete tools, the
most important thing is that
you are good in transmitting
your value proposal, your
messages, etc., to your customers.
What is it concrete?
That they understand quickly how
you can help them, why they have
to buy you, why you, that you help
them validate that they have a
problem if they don't buy you, etc.
This is what we learned in the
course we were based on Story Brand.
And remember the recommendation,
all communications aimed at capturing,
converting your customers, etc.,
all touch points, messages have
to be filtered before by this
script, by this structure
that makes sense to your
messages.
Well, let's go to the more
concrete tools and we'll do it
thinking of the two types of funnels,
in the shortest funnel we have, remember
the macro conversion is to go
from visits to customers or
to sales and then we'll do it
with the a little longer
funnel in which there are two
macro conversions, leads and
sales.
We start with the first and
return to the example of Morrison,
the shoe brand.
What is the macro conversion here?
The percentage of all people who
visit our website that end
up buying.
That is what we have to obsess
ourselves with optimizing.
Now we have to think, right?
And how do we do it?
What should we focus on?
First, we have to focus on
the web page, which is the store,
which is where we sell, that is
where the visits land and we really
play it in a short time, we play
it in that the usability is spectacular,
we play it in the photos,
that it is attractive, that
the payment method generates
confidence, etc.
Why do I say and emphasize that we
play it in a short time?
Because we are talking about a
low-impact purchase, it is little
money, it is easy to decide, you
are not playing the life being exaggerated
and in addition it is that
there is a lot of offer, that is,
over a month at the end you land
in many different e-commerce
and you can buy or not buy, but
your life will not change, so
the immediate is where it is being
played, on the website and
so we will see in a later class,
we will see what are the techniques
to optimize conversions
within the website.
What I want you to take into account
is that we actually play
it there but also we have the possibility
of buying us or not buying us
to continue being in the mind
of our target audience and we
can do it in different ways,
but you should know for example
the retargeting, that we will
do a class in detail, this
is, imagine that you enter an
e-commerce and you have not
bought but you have come to
a certain product and then go
to a digital newspaper and
you appear in display ads of that
product, as you see that e-commerce
what you are trying to
become is a conversion tool
or social networks too, social
networks are a tool that
serve us for many things
but between them to convert,
why all the brands want
you to follow in social
networks?
Because they can be impacting
you permanently, if we follow
Morrison, the case we are analyzing
on Instagram or Facebook, well
because we will see when
they take out new shoe
models and this is
a conversion tool.
Now we go to a longer funnel, we
go to the typical funnel in which
we have two main macro conversion
ratios that is the percentage
of leads on visits and subsequently
the percentage of customers on
leads and we will see how we can
manage or optimize the first
of the ratios, how can we
capture more leads?
Well, we have a number of tools
to do so, we have to play with
the forms on the website for
example, how do you request
the data?
You have to be good asking for the
data, it has to be a form that you
want to fill in, we can play
inside the web page with the
call to actions buttons,
how do we ask for the
information to be visible, etc.
With what messages?
We can create, for example, a
landing page or several landing pages
that are absolutely oriented to capture
the lead because they have little
information, little focus because
with a message, a video,
a benefit, etc. and the
form or call to action.
We can, very often, offer for example
a newsletter, we create value
content that has to interest our
target audience and what
we do is if you leave us the
data we inform you every month
of something, we deliver value,
it is a strategy of capture of
leads, we can use the strategy
that is called lead magnet,
which is a magnet of leads,
and this in what consists?
Well, imagine that we created a
free ebook, for example, very attractive
with the 10 keys or the 10
recipes, the 10 best cooking
recipes, etc.
Well, if you are selling something
related to the kitchen and you generate
very attractive content and you
viralize it very much,
you will get a lot of leads that
you will then have to convert.
Another strategy to generate
leads, webinars, is a bit like,
after all, it is to deliver
value, in this case if you want
to point to the webinar in which
we will tell you how to do,
etc., etc., well, because you
have to leave your data or
for example offering a free
trial, a free trial, etc.
There are many different ways but
we have to be very good thinking
what is what our customer
wants to offer and in exchange
will give us their data.
When you give us your data,
what is enabling us is a relationship
with it.
And here we go to the next phase,
what we have to do is manage
that lead, we have to inform,
convince, be present in
the school, has given us
the opportunity but still
in many cases is not ready
to buy.
This is a broad concept that can
be called nurture, which is to
feed the lead.
Basically what we have to
do is through different strategies
to inform the customer,
sending the right messages,
approaching him, etc.
How can we do it?
We can do this by retargeting,
which we have seen before, through
social media but mainly through
what is called lead nurturing,
which we will
see.
That to understand it is
to send a series of mainly
automated messages in the
time you are convincing
or reporting or delivering
value.
We can send emails with the
details of our product, we
can send emails with testimonials
from other customers, etc.
Another strategy to convert
or manage leads is telemarketing,
which is called tracking.
Well, in this phase what we have
done is to manage that lead but what
we have to do is to close it, it is
to convince and this will depend
on the type of business.
In some cases, we will close the
website if it is an e-commerce
or in some cases we will
close through the sales department,
through representatives,
key account managers, etc.
or we will close through
telemarketing, such as insurance
companies or telephone
operators, etc.
As we have seen, there are three stages.
In the first we have to be very
good capturing leads to optimize
that ratio, the more leads the
better.
Then we have to be very good at
managing designing a series of interactions,
the more automated the
better to manage the relationship
with our leads, to help them,
to convince them and finally
what we have to do is close
and close different
ways as we have seen.
On the web page we play
it back on the usability of the
web, on the payments pass,
etc. or in a more traditional
system of sale, sale through
commercials or telemarketing.